Now, once we have the project created
we can actually run the project
by simply moving into that project directory,
so in this case I'll cd into my-first-angular-project
and the I'll simply run ng serve.
So this command actually performs a number of operations.
So the first thing it does is that it builds
the application, so the compiling slash transpiling,
then it starts the server
and then it'll also watch the source files.
So it'll actually rebuild the application
when any of the source files are updated.
So there's no need to to stop start,
it'll automatically reload or it'll perform
a hot reload of your application.
And we'll actually see this in action
when we go through some of the upcoming videos.
And then by default the server will listen on port 4200,
so once the server is up and running
then you simply open up a web browser
and you visit localhost colon 4200.
And then there's another option here,
you could say ng serve and it'll give dash dash open,
so this is the same as above
but it also will open a web browser for you
and automatically go to the site localhost 4200.
So you have an optional source, which one do you want to use?
Now, you can also change the server port,
so you could say hey, I don't want 4200,
can I run it on a different port?
The answer's yes, you simply give the port argument
and a given value here.
So here I could say ng serve port 5100
and then I can simply go to localhost 5100
or we'll say ng serve port 5100 and open,
so it'll automatically open a browser
and go to that given site.
All righty, so let's take a look at the project files.
So as I mentioned, there's a lot of files
for a given Angular project.
But don't worry, we'll cover some of the key files.
So let's kind of zoom in here.
So we have this angular dot json and this file
basically has the Angular workspace configuration
and also a list of execution targets.
So we have the e2e directory and the karma file.
This is for end to end testing.
There's a node_modules directory.
So this is the local repository of the node modules.
There's the package dot json file,
so this has the project metadata,
also a list of node dependencies.
So you can kind of think of the package dot json
as being similar to Maven's pom dot xml file,
basically a list of all your dependencies
for your project.
Then we have the main source directory.
And then the app folder basically has
your app components, templates and so on.
The assets folder has any other web assets
that you want to serve up.
So for example, images and so on you can place here.
The environments folder has configuration
for your different environments,
so for like dev environment,
test environment, prod environment,
similar to profiles in the Spring world.
There's the index dot html.
So this is your main launch page,
so this basically kind of bootstraps
the entire process for your given application.
There's the polyfils dot ts.
So this adds support for different browser versions,
for like i.e. Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
There's the test dot ts, basically has a collection
of unit tests for the entire application.
And then the tsconfig files.
These are the TypeScript compiler config files.
All righty, so if you'd like
to get more information on the file structure,
visit the website here on the screen, angular.io,
there's a guide online that will basically
walk through the file structure for you
for a given Angular project,
so you can get all the gory details
for a given Angular project.
All righty, so let's go ahead and move into our IDE
and let's get started with creating
our first Angular project and we'll get it up and running.
So I'll see ya in the next video.